Overview
--------

This project provides dict-like holders for TOML data.

Installation
------------

To install tomlhold, you can use pip. Open your terminal and run:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install tomlhold

Features
--------

``class tomlhold.Holder(data: Any = None)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Holder is a subclass of datahold.OkayDict specifically for handling TOML. All features that are overwritten are described below.

Calling the class creates a new instance.

``__delitem__(keys: tuple | int | str) -> None``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method deletes a value at the location specified by a sequence of keys.

``__getitem__(keys: tuple | int | str) -> Any``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method returns a value at the location specified by a sequence of keys.

``__setitem__(keys: tuple | int | str, value: Any) -> None``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method alters a value at the location specified by a sequence of keys.

``dump(stream: Any, **kwargs: Any) -> None``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method dumps the data of the current instance into a byte stream. The following two functions are equivalent:

.. code-block:: python

    from tomlhold import Holder
    import tomli_w

    stream = open("example.toml", "wb")

    def a(holder: Holder, **kwargs) -> None:
        holder.dump(stream, **kwargs)

    def b(holder: Holder, **kwargs) -> None:
        tomli_w.dump(holder.data, stream, **kwargs)

``dumpintofile(file: str, **kwargs: Any) -> None``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method dumps the data of the current instance into a file. The following two functions are equivalent:

.. code-block:: python

    from tomlhold import Holder
    import tomli_w

    def a(holder: Holder, **kwargs) -> None:
        return holder.dumpintofile("example.toml", **kwargs)

    def b(holder: Holder, **kwargs) -> None:
        with open("example.toml", "wb") as stream:
            tomli_w.dump(holder.data, stream, **kwargs)

``dumps(**kwargs: Any) -> str``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method dumps the data of the current instance into a string. The following two functions are equivalent:

.. code-block:: python

    from tomlhold import Holder
    import tomli_w

    def a(holder: Holder, **kwargs) -> str:
        return holder.dumps(**kwargs)

    def b(holder: Holder, **kwargs) -> str:
        return tomli_w.dumps(holder.data, **kwargs)

``get(*keys: Any, default: Any = None) -> Any``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following two functions are equivalent:

.. code-block:: python

    from tomlhold import Holder

    def a(holder: Holder) -> Any:
        return holder.get("hello", "world", default=42)

    def b(holder: Holder) -> Any:
        try:
            return holder["hello", "world"]
        except KeyError:
            return 42

``load(stream: Any) -> Self``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This classmethod loads data from a byte stream and create a new Holder instance from it.

``loadfromfile(file: str) -> Self``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This classmethod loads data from a file and create a new Holder instance from it.

``loads(string: Any) -> Self``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This classmethod converts the given value into a string before loading data from it to create a new Holder instance.

``setdefault(*keys: Any, default: Any = None) -> Any``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following two functions are equivalent:

.. code-block:: python

    from tomlhold import Holder

    def a(holder: Holder) -> Any:
        return holder.setdefault("hello", "world", default=42)

    def b(holder: Holder) -> Any:
        try:
            return holder["hello", "world"]
        except KeyError:
            holder["hello", "world"] = 42
            return 42

``tomlhold.test() -> unittest.TextTestResult``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This project can be tested through its test function.

.. code-block:: python 

    import tomlhold
    tomlhold.test()

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Links
-----

- Download: https://pypi.org/project/tomlhold/#files
- Index: https://pypi.org/project/tomlhold/
- Source: https://github.com/johannes-programming/tomlhold/
- Website: https://tomlhold.johannes-programming.online/

Impressum
---------

**Johannes Programming**

- Name: Johannes
- Email: johannes.programming@gmail.com
- Homepage: https://www.johannes-programming.online/
- Gravatar: https://www.johannes-programming.fyi/