Overview
--------

This project provides ``dict``-like holders for TOML data.

Installation
------------

To install ``tomlhold``, you can use ``pip``.
Open your terminal and run:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install tomlhold

Typing
------

The typing conforms strictly to ``mypy``.

Features
--------

``class tomlhold.TOMLDict(data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[object, Any] | Iterable[tuple[object, Any]], /)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This subclass of ``datahold.HoldDict[str, Any]`` represents TOML tables.

``dump(stream: Any, /, **kwargs: Any) -> None``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method dumps the data of the current instance into a byte stream.

``dumpintofile(file: str, /, **kwargs: Any) -> None``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method dumps the data of the current instance into a file.

``dumps(**kwargs: Any) -> str``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method dumps the data of the current instance into a string.

``load(stream: Any, /) -> Self``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``classmethod`` loads data from a byte stream and creates a new instance from it.

``loadfromfile(file: str, /) -> Self``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``classmethod`` loads data from a file and creates a new instance from it.

``loads(string: str, /) -> Self``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``classmethod`` loads data from a string and creates a new instance from it.

``class tomlhold.TOMLList(data: Iterable[Any] = (), /)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This subclass of ``datahold.HoldList[Any]`` represents TOML arrays.

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Links
-----

- Download: https://pypi.org/project/tomlhold/#files
- Index: https://pypi.org/project/tomlhold/
- Source: https://github.com/johannes-programming/tomlhold/
- Website: https://tomlhold.johannes-programming.online/

Impressum
---------

**Johannes Programming**

- Name: Johannes
- Email: johannes.programming@gmail.com
- Homepage: https://www.johannes-programming.online/
- Gravatar: https://www.johannes-programming.fyi/
